# StatefulSet in Helm Chart
```PS C:\Users\Darverdar\OneDrive\Документы\DevOps_labs> kubectl get po,sts,svc,pvc
NAME                                           READY   STATUS             RESTARTS      AGE
pod/app-python-68d579cbf9-tl8xn                1/1     Running            5 (40s ago)   28d     
pod/helm-hooks-darverda-app-5458d6489d-mvhvf   0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0             16d     
pod/postinstall-hook                           0/1     Completed          0             16d     
pod/preinstall-hook                            0/1     Completed          0             16d     

NAME                                      READY   AGE
statefulset.apps/statefulset-app-python   1/1     30s

NAME                                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
service/app-python                  LoadBalancer   10.101.86.14    <pending>     5000:32326/TCP   25d
service/app-python-service          LoadBalancer   10.96.141.79    <pending>     5000:31147/TCP   25d
service/statefulset-app-python      NodePort       10.102.241.3    <none>        5000:30915/TCP   30s```

```kubectl exec pod/statefulset-darverda-app-0 -- cat visits_cnt.txt
30```

```kubectl exec pod/statefulset-app-python-1 -- cat visits_cnt.txt
25```

# File Content Differences in Pods
Each pod in a StatefulSet has a unique, stable identity, and they are created sequentially from index 0 to N-1, where N is the number of replicas.This means that each pod can have its own state, which can be different from the state of other pods. In your case, the visits_cnt.txt file in each pod could be tracking some metric (like the number of visits to a service that the pod is running), and the difference in the counts indicates that the metric was incremented differently in each pod.


## Ordering Guarantee and Parallel Operations

Ordering guarantees in StatefulSets ensure that pods are created and deleted in a specific order, which is important for applications that rely on a certain startup or shutdown order. However, if your application does not require such ordering, these guarantees can be unnecessary. For example, if your application instances are completely independent and do not rely on each other for startup or shutdown, then the ordering guarantees provided by StatefulSets are not needed.


To launch or terminate all pods in parallel in a StatefulSet, you can modify the .spec.podManagementPolicy field of the StatefulSet to Parallel. By default, this field is set to OrderedReady, which means that pods are created sequentially and they are only deleted after all the subsequent pods are completely shut down. When set to Parallel, the StatefulSet controller will create and delete all pods in parallel, which can speed up the scaling operations if your application does not require the ordering guarantees.